# Data Types

## 2.9 Textures
The texture data type is a handle to
one-, two-, or three-dimensional texture data that corresponds to all or a portion of a single mipmap level of a texture.
The following templates define specific texture data types:

```Metal Shading Language（MSL）
enum class access { sample, read, write, read_write };
texture1d<T, access a = access::sample>
texture1d_array<T, access a = access::sample>
texture2d<T, access a = access::sample>
texture2d_array<T, access a = access::sample>
texture3d<T, access a = access::sample>
texturecube<T, access a = access::sample>
texturecube_array<T, access a = access::sample>
texture2d_ms<T, access a = access::read>
texture2d_ms_array<T, access a = access::read>
```

You must declare textures with depth formats as one of the following texture data types:

```Metal Shading Language（MSL）
depth2d<T, access a = access::sample>
depth2d_array<T, access a = access::sample>
depthcube<T, access a = access::sample>
depthcube_array<T, access a = access::sample>
depth2d_ms<T, access a = access::read>
depth2d_ms_array<T, access a = access::read>
```

macOS supports texture2d_ms_array and depth2d_ms_array since Metal 2.0.
All other types supported since Metal 1.0.
iOS supports all types except texture2d_ms_array and depth2d_ms_array since Metal 1.0.

T specifies the color type of one of the components returned when
reading from a texture or the color type of one of the components specified when writing to the texture.
For texture types (except depth texture types),
T can be half, float, short, ushort, int, or uint. For depth texture types, T must be float.

If T is int or short, the data associated with the texture must use a signed integer format.
If T is uint or ushort, the data associated with the texture must use an unsigned integer format.
If T is half, the data associated with the texture must either be a normalized (signed or unsigned integer) or half-precision format.
If T is float, the data associated with the texture must either be a normalized (signed or unsigned integer),
half or single-precision format.

These access attributes describe support for accessing a texture:
* sample — A graphics or kernel function can sample the texture object.
sample implies the ability to read from a texture with and without a sampler.
* read — Without a sampler, a graphics or kernel function can only read the texture object.
* write — A graphics or kernel function can write to the texture object.
* read_write — A graphics or kernel function can read and write to the texture object.

All OS: read_write access supported since Metal 1.2. Other access qualifiers since Metal 1.0

Multisampled textures only support the read attribute.
Depth textures only support the sample and read attributes.

The following example uses access qualifiers with texture object arguments:

```Metal Shading Language（MSL）
void foo (texture2d<float> imgA [[texture(0)]],
texture2d<float, access::read> imgB [[texture(1)]],
texture2d<float, access::write> imgC [[texture(2)]])
{…}
```

You can use a texture type as the variable type for any variables declared inside a function.
The access attribute for variables of texture type declared inside a function must be access::read or access:sample.
Declaring variables inside a function to be a texture type
without using access::read or access:sample qualifiers causes a compilation error.

```Metal Shading Language（MSL）
void foo (texture2d<float> imgA [[texture(0)]],
texture2d<float, access::read> imgB [[texture(1)]],
texture2d<float, access::write> imgC [[texture(2)]])
{
 texture2d<float> x = imgA; // OK
 texture2d<float, access::read> y = imgB; // OK
 texture2d<float, access::write> z; // This is illegal.
 …
}
```
