# Address Spaces

## device Address Space
The device address space name refers to buffer memory objects allocated from the device memory pool that are both readable and writeable.

A buffer memory object can be declared as a pointer or reference to a scalar, vector or userdefined structure.
In an app, Metal API calls allocate the memory for the buffer object, which determines the actual size of the buffer memory.

Some examples are:
```Metal Shading Language（MSL）
// An array of a float vector with four components.
device float4 *color;

struct Foo {
float a[3];
int b[2];
};
// An array of Foo elements.
device Foo *my_info;
```

Since you always allocate texture objects from the device address space, you do not need the device address attribute for texture types.
You cannot directly access the elements of a texture object, so use the built-in functions to read from and write to a texture object

## constant Address Space
The constant address space name refers to buffer memory objects allocated from the device memory pool that are read-only.
You must declare variables in program scope in the constant address space and initialize them during the declaration statement. 

The initializer(s) expression must be a core constant expression.
The compiler may evaluate a core constant expression at compile time.
Variables in program scope have the same lifetime as the program,
and their values persist between calls to any of the compute or graphics functions in the program.

```Metal Shading Language（MSL）
constant float samples[] = { 1.0f, 2.0f, 3.0f, 4.0f };
```

Pointers or references to the constant address space are allowed as arguments to functions.

Buffers in the constant address space passed to kernel, vertex, and fragment functions
have minimum alignment requirements based on the GPU.
