# Function and Variable Declarations.



## 5.1.3 Compute Functions (Kernels)
A compute function (also called a "kernel") is a data-parallel function that is executed over a 1-, 2-, or 3D grid.
The following example shows the syntax for declaring a compute function with the kernel or since Metal 2.3 [[kernel]] attribute.

```Metal Shading Language（MSL）
kernel
void my_kernel(…) {…}

[[kernel]]
void my_kernel2(…) {…}
```

Functions declared with the kernel or [[kernel]] attribute must return void.

You can use the [[max_total_threads_per_threadgroup]] function attribute
with a kernel function to specify the maximum threads per threadgroup.
Below is an example of a kernel function that uses this attribute:

```Metal Shading Language（MSL）
[[max_total_threads_per_threadgroup(x)]]
kernel void
my_kernel(…)
{…}
```

If the [[max_total_threads_per_threadgroup]] value
is greater than the [MTLDevice maxThreadsPerThreadgroup] property,
then compute pipeline state creation shall fail.


## 5.2.3.6 Kernel Function Input Attributes
When a kernel function is submitted for execution, it executes over an N-dimensional grid of threads, where N is one, two or three.
A thread is an instance of the kernel function that executes for each point in this grid,
and thread_position_in_grid identifies its position in the grid.

Within a compute unit, a threadgroup is partitioned into multiple smaller groups for execution.
The execution width of the compute unit, referred to as the threads_per_simdgroup, determines the recommended size of this smaller group.
For best performance, make the total number of threads in the threadgroup a multiple of the threads_per_simdgroup.

Threadgroups are assigned a unique position within the grid (referred to as threadgroup_position_in_grid).
Threads are assigned a unique position within a threadgroup (referred to as thread_position_in_threadgroup).
The unique scalar index of a thread within a threadgroup is given by thread_index_in_threadgroup.
